---
title: "Configure the iOS app for Microsoft Places"
ms.author: mactra
author: MachelleTranMSFT
manager: jtremper
ms.date: 05/16/2024
audience: ITPro
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: o365-proplus-itpro
ms.collection: Tier3
ms.localizationpriority: medium
recommendations: true
description: "Instructions on how to install the Microsoft Places mobile app (iOS only)."
---
# Configure the iOS app for Microsoft Places

To enable the mobile experience, an IT admin might need to configure Mobile Application Management (MAM), and users must install Apple’s TestFlight app and the Microsoft Places app on their mobile phones. This article explains how to install the Places application.

- These instructions are only in effect for the Private and Public Previews. Testing is managed through Apple’s TestFlight platform.

- TestFlight is an application and service owned by Apple. It's offered to app developers to make it easy to invite users to test apps and collect feedback before releasing thei apps in the App Store.

- The Places mobile application can be made available to Private and Public Preview customers’ users that have iOS devices (version 16.4 or later).  

- Because the Places mobile application is still in its pilot phase and not yet available in the App Store. To allow Preview customers to install and test the application, we've made the Places mobile iOS available (installed through Apple TestFlight).

> [!NOTE]
> The Microsoft Places iOS app is an opt-in feature. For more information, see [Microsoft Places Preview](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-places).

## Prerequisites

- If applicable, your organization’s MAM policy should allow your users to download and install the Apple TestFlight app so they can install, run, and experience the Places iOS.

- All users who need access to Places (including the mobile app) are added to the Security Group in Tenant Settings for PlacesEnabled.

- EnabledPlacesMobileApp is set to **default:true**, or all users that need access to the mobile app are added to the Security Group set for EnablePlacesMobileApp.

- Customers update their Unified Endpoint Management, such as Intune, for MAM policy requirements to allow employees to install the Places mobile App (some tenants, see criteria and guidance below).

## Enable Places Mobile for your users

Run the following PowerShell cmdlet to enable the opt-in features for your tenant.

```powershell
Set-PlacesSettings -Collection Places -PlacesEnabled ‘Default:false, OID<Security Group OID>@<TenantId>:true’ -EnablePlacesMobileApp ‘Default:true’ 
```

## Mobile Application Installation 

To install the Places mobile experience (iOS only), an IT admin must update their Intune MAM policy (if applicable). Pilot users need to install the Microsoft Places app on their iPhone.

The mobile access installation process is made up of these five steps. 

|Step  |Action     |Owner     |
|---------|---------|---------|
|**1**|Review and update mobile policies, if applicable (see the appendix for further information) |Customer IT admin or mobile security admin  |
|**2**|Customer IT admin emails the Places mobile team to request unique Places and TestFlight URLs for their organization | Customer IT admin |
|**3**|URL is generated by the Places mobile team, which is shared with the customer via email |Microsoft Places mobile team |
|**4**|Customer distributes the URL to their pilot users |Customer IT admin |
|**5**|Customer's pilot users click on the URL to download and install the Places iOS app |Pilot users |
 